Welcome to exercise number two,
where we'll create your current monthly income statement
so we can figure out ways to save more money
when we do exercise number three.
Okay, so don't worry
if the current income statement
that you create here is not 100% accurate
or perfect 'cause I just kinda want you to understand
from a high level perspective where your
money is going and how to save more.
So please open up your complete personal finance
dashboard Excel document,
and click on the tab called exercise two
and three income statement,
so we can complete exercise number two.
Okay, and so, I want ya to,
I want ya to please take your time
completing this exercise as I promise you
that this will lead to significant savings,
and a much, much higher net worth
for you later in life if you take
your time with this exercise.
As you know, there's a couple ways to access
information in this spreadsheet.
I'm gonna click here to go to
exercise number two.
You could have also gone up here
to select exercise two,
that sort of thing,
or clicked on income statement here,
it would have gone to the same place.
Okay, cool.
So what we're gonna do now, is we're gonna create
our current income statement.
Do the best you can, doesn't have to be perfect.
But take your time with it please.
So,
an income statement is money in
minus money out.
And as with all of our exercises
we only enter in stuff in the white boxes.
If applicable.
And so we're gonna do this on a monthly basis.
So let's say that your annual salary is $50,000
and I have it up here in rupees,
you can change to dollars or whatever format you want.
Okay, so let's say I make $50,000 a year.
I would go 50 divided by 12.
'Kay.
We want to look at everything on a monthly basis.
And that's 100% of my pre-tax income
because that's all I've entered in.
So just enter in your salary here
on a monthly basis.
Don't deduct taxes yet, please.
We'll deduct taxes and other stuff
in the next part, okay?
Meaning in the money out part.
So,
what we're gonna do also is you can
enter in commissions.
Let's say I make, I don't know,
maybe $10,000 a year in commissions,
so I'll say $10,000 divided by 12.
Okay so again, just keep everything
on a monthly basis, please.
And you can put in notes here
if you want, so it's optional.
Okay.
Okay, great.
So monthly income is 5 grand,
that means 60 per year.
And we'll go through here and
if you make money on other stuff as well,
like dividend income, or interest income,
you can put it here.
Or rental income,
or I don't know, maybe you're driving an Uber on the side,
you can put that here, or Airbnb,
you're renting a room on the side,
or maybe you're teaching a unit.
Okay, then after you're done that,
what we're gonna do
is we're gonna enter in money out.
Okay?
And I want you to do this again
on a monthly basis.
Federal tax, state tax, or provincial.
That sort of thing.
Healthcare, social security.
Okay and you can get this from your paycheck
sometimes as well.
Just make it monthly, please.
And then if you wanted to add more items,
anywhere, don't, please don't in,
please don't insert or deduct any rows.
Just click on that little plus
and you can insert more here for example, 'kay?
Alright, so
oops, let me get rid of that.
You can put comments though if you want, as well.
You'll enter in all of your car expenses as well.
You're childcare expenses, if you have them okay?
And stars means potentially tax deductible
and we'll cover that later, 'kay?
If you don't have kids, let's skip that.
Communications and technology expenses here.
Debt you have,
if you have it.
Education expenses, put that here as well.
Entertainment or hobbies.
And I try to make everything visual,
it's just more fun, it's easier
just to kind of look at images
instead of looking at boring text.
Food and drinks, on a monthly basis.
Fees and other charges, like ATM fees
which is a bank machine fee.
And then gifts and donations you make as well
because they're tax deductible,
we'll cover that later.
Health expenses, I think of these as
more an investment.
That's just me.
Enter all this stuff in here.
Housing.
And if you own a house these will be
quite high, if you don't
then they'll be much lower obviously.
And then we're gonna put your mortgage here as well.
'Kay?
Okay, great.
Personal haircut expenses,
pet's if you have them.
Shopping.
Vacation, you get the idea.
And then other here, if you don't have
it categorized, okay?
And so please go through this
and enter all this information.
And the reason why I'm saying to do this
and take your time with it,
is because later, and don't scroll over here yet please.
But I'm going to quickly.
I'm gonna go to the top.
What we're gonna do later is we're
gonna make our new and improved income statements.
Okay?
And you'll be able to click on these
and watch videos, or you can watch videos
in the next section and I'll walk you
though everything, don't worry.
And in terms of how to cut down
on these expenses.
And you will be absolutely blown away
with how much money you're going to save.
Which means you're net worth's
gonna be a lot higher after we're done with this, 'kay?
So again, take your time with this
and then when you're done, please watch
the next lecture, and we'll go through
what the bottom line is here.
So what's gonna happen is you will see
your net income right here.
Okay, that's money in minus money out.
And then, again, if you don't use
this currency here, rupee, you can go
click here or in settings and change
to dollars, or yen, or whatever currency it is.
Okay, so complete all this,
and then I will see you in the next lecture
which is called discussion of your answers
to exercise two.
Have fun with this, thank you.